2. read the book - make it stick ,the science of succesful learning
    by peter c brown,henry , mark

3. use feymand technique - 
   try to understand what you study, do not try to memorize.
  - try explaining to a 5 year old kid about the topic
  if you can you have understand the topic

4. the science of active recall- testing yourself to recall what you learn
(make active recall question while making your notes)
  study by john dunlosky - department of psychological sciences
   professor and director of SOLE centre campus - kent

5. testing ourself everytime we finish reading a topic.(testing two or three times)
  a quick summary in our brain or to explain the topic in our own word in brain
  (here making notes is passive it's waste of time)

6. princeton study -in class, handwritten notes retain more information then digital 
   the cornell note taking system - instead of going thru the note one by one just 
    read the question and answer automatically(same as active recall)
    so you are not wasting time to read all of ur notes,
(the harder we have to do stuff ,the more lightly we are to remember it)

7.make a lot of question (use toggle to hide the answer) and do active recall 

8.know the scope of the topic. topic khat nasim le..ipi branch a hung pot ham? ipi tree a
 pat hung ham. arrange na thep ngai.
(figure the sub heading, section --even before study)
 starting with broad picture and narrowing our way down the topic
  
9.remember how you came to understand it

11. space repetition (next day, one week , one month) or more if you cant retrive it

12. make revision table (red - more revision, yellow - ok , green - good to go)

13. power of interleaved practice - dont study same topic too long.
   you can switch every 30 minutes or 1 hr for each subject
14. re- reading notes  works. but it's a waste of time most of the time(we dont understand a thing), you can do active recall instead 

17. can use flashcard - try anki apps

18. use mind map

19. mnemonic technique (arrange in order or meaning letter or list or music rhytm)
   eg. SNOB 'N' US
            String - Number - Object - Boolean - null - undefined - symbol
21.peg system -> for memorise number , rewatch it
22. mind palace

23. essay memorization technique - good for upsc

24. active recall technique - instead of reading many notes or writing notes, write a tone of questions
    make questions for every notes you read
26. motivation is a myth, be more focus on discipline
28. u can use pomodoro technique (25 work 5 mins break) x 4 -> 20 mins or 30 mins break
      use this if you have less interest on the topic you study(if you cant focus for long) 
29. music while studying (music with lyrics is bad) , best is study in silent , coz a study show does hu study under water perform
   better in water or vize versa, coz environment effect us, to balance
  -> you can use instrumental music
30. work life balnce, study everywhere you go, do active recall in office etc
  

